
For determining the eligibility of Bidder the following shall apply:
(a) The Bidder may be a single entity or a group of entities (the   or the ), coming together to implement the Project. The term Bidder used
herein would apply to both a single entity and a Consortium/Joint Venture.
(b) Bidder may be a natural person, private entity, or any combination of them with a formal intent to enter into a Consortium/Joint Venture agreement or under an existing agreement to form a Consortium/Joint Venture. A Consortium/Joint Venture shall be eligible for consideration subject to the conditions set out in Clause 2.1.11 above.
(c) A Bidder shall not have a conflict of interest   that affects the Bidding Process. Any Bidder found to have a Conflict of Interest shall be disqualified and liable for forfeiture of the Bid Security or Performance Security as the case may
      14
be. A Bidder shall be deemed to have a Conflict of Interest affecting the Bidding Process, if:
(i) the Bidder, its Consortium/Joint Venture member (or any constituent thereof) and any other Bidder, its member or any member of its Consortium/Joint Venture thereof (or any constituent thereof) have common controlling shareholders or other ownership interest; provided that this disqualification shall not apply in cases where the direct or indirect shareholding of a Bidder, or its Consortium/Joint Venture member thereof (or any shareholder thereof having a shareholding of more than 5% (five percent) of the paid up and subscribed share capital of such Bidder, or its Consortium/Joint Venture member, as the case may be), in the other Bidder, its Consortium/Joint Venture member is less than 5% (five percent) of the subscribed and paid up equity share capital thereof; provided further that this disqualification shall not apply to any ownership by a bank, insurance company, pension fund or a public financial institution referred to in section 4A of the Companies Act 2013. For the purposes of this Clause 2.2.1(c), indirect shareholding held through one or more intermediate persons shall be computed as follows:
(aa) where any intermediary is controlled by a person through management control or otherwise, the entire shareholding held by such controlled intermediary in any other person (the Subject Person   shall be taken into account for computing the shareholding of such controlling person in the Subject Person; and
(bb) subject always to sub-clause (aa) above, where a person does not exercise control over an intermediary, which has shareholding in the Subject Person, the computation of indirect shareholding of such person in the Subject Person shall be undertaken on a proportionate basis; provided, however, that no such shareholding shall be reckoned under this sub-clause (bb) if the shareholding of such person in the intermediary is less than 26% of the subscribed and paid up equity shareholding of such intermediary; or
(ii) a constituent of such Bidder is also a constituent of another Bidder; or
(iii) such Bidder, or any of its Consortium/Joint Venture member thereof receives or has received any direct or indirect subsidy, grant, concessional loan or subordinated debt from any other Bidder, or any of its Consortium/Joint Venture member thereof or has provided any such subsidy, grant, concessional loan or subordinated debt to any other Bidder, its member or any of its Consortium/Joint Venture member thereof; or
(iv) such Bidder has the same legal representative for purposes of this RFP as any other Bidder; or
(v) such Bidder, or any of its Consortium/Joint Venture member thereof has a relationship with another Bidder, or any of its Consortium/Joint Venture member thereof, directly or through common third party/parties, that puts either or both of them in a positi               s information about, or to influence the Bid of either or each other; or
(vi) such Bidder, or any of its Consortium/Joint Venture members thereof has participated as a consultant to the Authority in the preparation of any documents, design or technical specifications of the Project.
Note:
(The Clause 2.2.1C.(i) is to be certified by a chartered Accountant and the clause 2.2.1C(iii, iv, v & vi) to be certified by the bidder)
2.2.2 Qualification requirements of Bidders: To be eligible for Qualification an individual Bidder or a Consortium/Joint Venture as whole as per clause 2.1.11(c), shall fulfil the following conditions of eligibility:
2.2.2.1 Technical Capacity- For demonstrating Technical Capacity and experience (the “Technical Capacity”), the bidder shall, during the last 5 (Five) previous financial years and the current financial year upto the Base month (not to be read with para- 2.1.13).
(i) have received payments for construction of Eligible Project(s), or has undertaken construction works by itself in a PPP project, such that the sum total thereof, as further adjusted in accordance with clause 2.2.2.4 (i) & (ii), is more than 2.5 (two and half) times the Estimated Project Cost (the
).
Provided that at least one fourth of the Threshold Technical Capacity shall be from the Eligible Projects in Category 1 and/ or Category 3 specified in Clause 2.2.2.4 (i) & (ii)
undertaken at least one Eligible Project of Railway sector as mentioned in clause 2.2.2.4/iii of value of not less than [35% (thirty five) per cent] of the Estimated Project Cost and have received payments for not less than 75 (seventy-five) per cent value of present Contract Value (excluding the payment made for adjustment of Price variation (PVC), if any) of such project.
Illustration for 'received payments for not less than 75 (seventy-five) percent:
For contract wherein there is provision for part payment on 'procurement of goods and equipment' on basis of indemnity bond/Bank Guarantee. In all such contract, 'received payments for not less than 75 (seventy-five) per cent value of present Contract Value payment' means not less than 75%payment received under 'procurement of goods and equipment' as well as not less than 75% payment received under ‘execution/installation/commissioning'.
[Note:- For composite works of New lines, Gauge Conversion, Doubling, 3rd line,4th line etc. with Railway electrification and/or Signalling and telecommunication works.
1. In case scope involves the electrification work as per item No.03 of Annexure I of Schedule -B value as mentioned in Annexure-G, the selected bidders can himself execute above Electrification work, only in case he has experience as mentioned in clause 2.2.2.1/ii above to value of estimated electrification work as mentioned in Schedule-G of draft Concession Agreement after taking approval from Authority. Otherwise selected bidder shall execute electrification work involved in project by engaging sub-contractor as per clause 3.2 of draft Concession Agreement having experience of Railway Sector works. The Railway Sector would be deemed to include overhead equipment system of Railway electrification for a railway system, metro system, suburban transit system, high speed railways, substation and transmission lines,
and/or
2. In case scope involves the Signalling and Telecommunication work as per item
No. 2 of Annexure I of Schedule -B value as mentioned in Annexure-G, the selected bidders can himself execute above Signalling and Telecommunication work, only in case he has experience as mentioned in clause 2.2.2.1/ii above to value of estimated Signalling and Telecommunication work as mentioned in
               16
Schedule-G of draft Concession Agreement after taking approval from Authority. Otherwise selected bidder shall execute Signalling and Telecommunication work involved in project by engaging sub-contractor as per clause 3.2 of draft Concession Agreement having experience of Railway Sector works. The Railway Sector would be deemed to include Signalling and Telecommunication of railway system, metro system, suburban transit system, high speed railways.]
2.2.2.2
2.2.2.3 2.2.2.4
Financial Capacity: The Bidder shall have a minimum Net Worth2 (the “Financial Capacity”) of 5% (Five percent) of the Estimated Project Cost of the Project for which Bids are being invited at the close of the preceding Financial Year.
Technical Capacity as per Clause 2.2.2.1(ii) is to be satisfied by any member of Consortium/Joint Venture having minimum 26% share holding in Consortium/Joint Venture.
CategoriesandfactorsforevaluationofTechnicalCapacity:
Subject to the provisions of Clause 2.2.2, the following categories of experience would qualify as Technical Capacity and eligible experience (the "Eligible Experience") in relation to eligible projects as stipulated in Clauses 2.2.2.5 (i) and 2.2.2.5 (ii) (the "Eligible Projects"):
Category 1: Category 2: Category 3: Category 4:
Project experience on Eligible Projects in Railways sector that qualify under Clause 2.2.2.5 (i)
Project experience on Eligible Projects in core sector that qualify under Clause 2.2.2.5 (i)
Construction experience on Eligible Projects in Railways sector that qualify under Clause 2.2.2.5 (ii)
Construction experience on Eligible Projects in core sector that qualify under Clause 2.2.2.5 (ii)
Category
Project / Construction experience on Eligible Projects
1
Project in Railway sector that qualify under Clause 2.2.2.5 (i)
2
Project in core sector that qualify under Clause 2.2.2.5 (i)
3
Construction in Railway sector that qualify under Clause 2.2.2.5 (ii)
   (ii)
(i) In case the Bidder has experience across different categories, the experience for each category would be computed as per weight of following factors to arrive at its aggregated Eligible Experience:
Factors 1
0.75 1
4 Construction in core sector that qualify under Clause 0.75 2.2.2.5 (ii)
The Technical capacity in respect of an Eligible Project situated in a developed country which is a member of OECD shall be further multiplied by a factor of 0.5 (zero point five) and the product thereof shall be the Technical capacity for such Eligible Project.
(The bidder has to certify whether they have worked in OECD countries). (iii) For the purpose of this RFP:
For New lines, Gauge Conversion, Doubling, 3rd line, 4th line including composite works with electrification and/or Signalling and telecommunication works etc. works:
2 Net worth has been adopted as the criterion for assessing financial capacity since it is a comprehensive indication of the financial strength of the Applicant.
This amount should be 5% (Five percent) of the Estimated Project Cost of the Project for which Bids are being invited.
  18
2.2.2.5
(i) Railways sector would be deemed to include railways, metro rails, LRT, monorail, high speed rail, highways, expressways, bridges (road/railways) and tunnels (road/railways); and
(ii) Core sector would be deemed to include hydroelectric dams, barrage, ports, airports, thermal/steel/cement plants, oil and gas pipelines, irrigation canals, water supply (pipelines/treatment plants), sewerage (pipelines/treatment plants), power transmission lines, civil works in power sector/commercial set ups (SEZs etc)/industrial parks/logistics parks and real estate development.$
Note :-
(i) In case of projects executed by Bidder under category 1, 2, 3 and 4 as a member
of Consortium/Joint Venture, the project cost should be restricted to the share of the applicant in the Consortium/Joint Venture for determining eligibility as per provision under clause 2.2.2.1 (i). For determination of % share in the project bidder have to submit Joint Venture/Consortium agreement for each Project for which he is claiming credential.
(ii) Maintenance works are not considered as eligible project for evaluation.
(iii) In case both the estimated cost of project and revised cost of project are provided, the revised cost of project shall be considered for evaluation.
Eligible Experience on Eligible Projects in respect of each category:
(i) For a project to qualify as an Eligible Project under Categories 1 and 2:
(a) It should have been undertaken as a PPP project for providing its output or services to a public sector entity or for providing non-discriminatory access to users in pursuance of its charter, concession or contract, as the case may be. For the avoidance of doubt, a project which constitutes a natural monopoly such as an airport or port should normally be included in this category even if it is not based on a long-term agreement with a public entity;
(b) the entity claiming experience should have held, in the company owning the Eligible Project, a minimum of 26% (twenty six per cent) equity during the entire year for which Eligible Experience is being claimed; and
(c) the capital cost of the project should be more than 10% (ten per cent) of the Estimated Project Cost.
(d) The value of self-construction during the last five (Five) previous financial years and current financial year upto the Base month (Not to be read with para 2.1.13) in projects which are considered as eligible projects in terms of Clause (a) to (c) above will be considered for the purpose of experience.
(ii). For a project to qualify as an Eligible Project under Categories 3 and 4:
A. For New lines, Gauge Conversion, Doubling, 3rd line, Bridges, ROB, Tunnels etc. works:
   $
or township which has been built by the Bidder.
Real estate development shall not include residential flats unless they form part of a real estate complex 19
The Bidder should have received cumulative payments from its client(s) for construction works executed, fully or partially, during the last 5 (five) previous financial Years and the current financial year upto the Base month (not to be read with pqra-2.1.13), and only the amounts (gross) actually received, during such years shall qualify for purposes of computing the Technical Capacity. However, total receipts of less than [Rs.10%(ten percent) of the Estimated project cost i.e.Rs.77,26,96,151.20]3 shall not be reckoned as receipts for Eligible Projects. For the avoidance of doubt, construction works shall not include supply of goods or equipment except when such goods or equipment form part of a turn-key construction contract/ EPC contract for the project. Further, the cost of land shall not be included hereunder.
Or
B. For Railway Electrification works: the Bidder should have received cumulative payments from
its client(s) for construction works executed, fully or partially, during the last 5 (five) previous financial Years and the current financial year upto the Base month (not to be read with para- 2.1.13), and only the amounts (gross) actually received, during such years shall qualify for purpose of computing the Technical Capacity. However receipts of less than Rs.10%(ten percent) of the Estimated project cost]4 shall not be reckoned as receipts/execution of Eligible Projects. For the avoidance of doubt, construction works shall not include supply of goods or equipment except when such goods or equipment form part of a turn-key construction contract/ EPC contract for the project.]
2.2.2.6 Submission of support of Technical Capacity
The Bidder should furnish the details of Eligible Experience for last 5 (five) previous -financial Years and the current financial year upto the Base month (not to be read with para-2.1.13).
(ii) The Bidder must provide the necessary information relating to Technical Capacity as per format at Annex-II of Appendix-IA.
(iii) The Bidder should furnish the required Project-specific information and evidence in support of its claim of Technical Capacity, as per format at Annex -IV of Appendix-IA.
2.2.2.7 Submission in support of Financial Capacity
(i) The Technical Bid shall be accompanied by the audited annual reports which includes
       Balance sheets and P&L Accounts of the Bidder (of each member in case of a Consortium/Joint Venture and also of associates if any, whose financial capacity is being claimed) for the last 5 (five) Completed Financial Years, preceding the year in which the Bid is submitted. Any certificate issued by Statutory Auditor/CA must include UDIN.
(ii) In case the annual accounts for the latest financial year are not audited and therefore the Bidder cannot make it available, the Bidder shall give an undertakingto this effect and the statutory auditor shall certify the same. In such a case, the Bidder shall provide the Audited Annual Reports for 5 (five) years preceding theyear for which the Audited Annual Report is not being provided.
   2.2.2.8
3&4
The Bidder must establish the minimum Net Worth specified in Clause 2.2.2.2,and
provide details as per format at Annex-III of Appendix-IA.
The Bidder shall enclose with its Technical Bid, to be submitted as per the format at Appendix- IA, complete with its Annexes, the following:
(i) Certificate(s) from its statutory auditors$ or the concerned client(s) stating the payments received or in case of a PPP project, the construction carried out by itself, during the past 5 years, in respect of the Eligible Projects. In case a particular job/ contract has been jointly executed by the Bidder (as part of a Consortium/Joint Venture), it should further support its claim for the payments received or construction carried out by itself in PPP Projects as applicable the
 This amount should not be less than about 10% (ten per cent) of the Estimated Project Cost
$ In case duly certified audited annual financial statements containing explicitly the requisite details are provided, a separate certification by statutory auditors would not be necessary in respect of Clause 2.2.2.8 (i). In jurisdictions that do not have statutory auditors, the firm of auditors which audits the annual accounts of the Bidder provide the certificates required under this RFP.
11 0
 
share in work done for that particular job/ contract by producing a certificate from its statutory auditor or the client; and
(ii) Certificate(s) from its statutory auditors specifying the net worth of the Bidder (including associates, if any), as at the close of the preceding Financial Year, and also specifying that the methodology adopted for calculating such net worth conforms to the provisions of this Clause 2.2.2.8 (ii). For the purposes of this RFP, net worth (the   ) shall mean the capital/aggregate value of the paid-up share capital and all reserves created out of the profits and securities premium account, after deducting the aggregate value of the accumulated losses, deferred expenditure and miscellaneous expenditure not written off, as per the audited balance sheet, but does not include reserves created out of revaluation of assets, write-back of depreciation and amalgamation.
2.2.2.9 In computing the Technical Capacity and Net Worth of the Bidder/ Member of Consortium/Joint Venture under Clauses 2.2.2.1, 2.2.2.2, 2.2.2.3 and 2.2.2.4, the Technical Capacity and Net Worth of their respective Associates would also be eligible hereunder. For purposes of this RFP, Associate means, in relation to the Bidder/ Member of Consortium/Joint Venture, a person who controls, is controlled by, or is under the common control with such Bidder/member (the “Associate”). As used in this definition, the expression “Control” means, with respect to a person which is a company or corporation, the ownership, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% (fifty percent) of the voting shares of such person, and with respect to a person which is nota company or corporation, the power to direct the management and policies of such person by operation of law.
2.3 Proprietary data
All documents and other information supplied by the Authority or submitted by a Bidder to the Authority shall remain or become the property of the Authority and are transmittedto the Bidders solely for the purpose of preparation and the submission of a Bid in accordance herewith. Bidders are to treat all information as strictly confidential and shall not use it for any purpose other than for preparation and submission of their Bid. The provisions of this Clause 2.3 shall also apply mutatis mutandis to Bids and all other documents submitted by the Bidders, and the Authority will not return to the Bidders any Bid, document or any information provided along therewith.